README.md, before:

# TCH Patient 360 PoC – Snowflake Deployment Guide

This repository packages the Texas Children's Hospital Patient 360 PoC for zero‑install deployment inside Snowflake.

## Quick start (Snowsight Workspaces – recommended)

1) Prerequisite steps to be taken by Account Admin:

```sql
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;
CREATE ROLE IF NOT EXISTS TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
GRANT ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE TO USER <YOUR USERNAME HERE>;
GRANT APPLICATION ROLE SNOWFLAKE.EVENTS_VIEWER TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
GRANT IMPORTED PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE SNOWFLAKE TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;

CREATE OR REPLACE API INTEGRATION GIT
    api_provider = git_https_api
    api_allowed_prefixes = ('*.github.com', 'https://github.com')
    enabled = true
    allowed_authentication_secrets = all;

GRANT USAGE ON INTEGRATION GIT TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;

-- In TCH_PATIENT_360_POC.RAW_DATA (matches sql/00_master.sql defaults)
CREATE OR REPLACE GIT REPOSITORY TCH_P360_REPO
  ORIGIN = https://github.com/jeremyakers/tch-patient-360-demo
  API_INTEGRATION = GIT;
ALTER GIT REPOSITORY TCH_P360_REPO FETCH;

CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE TCH_COMPUTE_WH
    WAREHOUSE_SIZE = 'MEDIUM'
    AUTO_SUSPEND = 60
    AUTO_RESUME = TRUE
    INITIALLY_SUSPENDED = TRUE
    COMMENT = 'General compute warehouse for data processing and transformations';

CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE TCH_ANALYTICS_WH
    WAREHOUSE_SIZE = 'LARGE'
    AUTO_SUSPEND = 300
    AUTO_RESUME = TRUE
    INITIALLY_SUSPENDED = TRUE
    COMMENT = 'Analytics warehouse for heavy analytical workloads and reporting';

CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE TCH_AI_ML_WH
    WAREHOUSE_SIZE = 'MEDIUM'
    AUTO_SUSPEND = 180
    AUTO_RESUME = TRUE
    INITIALLY_SUSPENDED = TRUE
    COMMENT = 'Warehouse for AI/ML workloads including Cortex functions';

-- Grant warehouse usage and ownership to the PoC role
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON WAREHOUSE TCH_COMPUTE_WH TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON WAREHOUSE TCH_ANALYTICS_WH TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON WAREHOUSE TCH_AI_ML_WH TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;

-- Grant essential privileges to create and manage databases
GRANT CREATE DATABASE ON ACCOUNT TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;

-- Grant privileges needed for Cortex AI features
-- These require ACCOUNTADMIN to grant initially
GRANT BIND SERVICE ENDPOINT ON ACCOUNT TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
```

2) Create a Git Workspace

- In Snowsight: Projects → Workspaces → From Git repository
- Repository URL: your Git URL (for example, `https://github.com/jeremyakers/tch-patient-360-demo`)
- Choose your API Integration and auth (OAuth2 or PAT)
- Select the branch (for example, `main`)
- Ref: Snowflake docs – Create a Git workspace: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ui-snowsight/workspaces#label-create-a-git-workspace

Workspace execution path
- The orchestrator executes files directly from your Workspace so your edits run without re‑fetching from Git. It uses the Snowflake workspace URI form:
  - Example: `EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM 'snow://workspace/USER$.PUBLIC."tch-patient-360-demo"/versions/live/sql/99_verification.sql';`
  - You can adjust these in `sql/00_master.sql` via `workspace_name`.

3) Open and run the orchestrator
- Open `sql/00_master.sql` in the Workspace
- Set parameters as needed near the top:
  - `data_size` → `small|medium|large`
  - If your Workspace name differs, set `workspace_name`
- Click Run All

4) Optional: Git‑orchestrated mode (executes from a Snowflake Git repository object)
- If your Snowflake admin created a Git repository object (with FETCH configured), set at the top of `sql/00_master.sql`:
  - Configure `git_db`, `git_schema`, `git_repo_name`, `git_ref_type`, `git_ref_name`
- Run All. The script will:
  - Execute step SQLs via `EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM @<repo>/...`
  - Create and execute the Notebook from the Git path
  - Create the Streamlit app from the Git path

5) Verify
- Run `sql/99_verification.sql` for a consolidated validation of raw loads, dynamic tables, and Cortex services.

## What gets deployed
- Raw schemas for source systems: `EPIC`, `WORKDAY`, `ORACLE_ERP`, `SALESFORCE`
- Conformed layer via Dynamic Tables (core PoC value)
- Presentation views for analytics and demos
- Cortex Search services for unstructured documents
- Cortex Analyst semantic model (YAML) staged and used by the app
- Streamlit in Snowflake application (Patient 360 app)

## Data generation
- Python is already inside Snowflake as a Notebook: `AI_ML.TCH_DATA_GENERATOR`
- `00_master.sql` can `CREATE NOTEBOOK FROM @repo` (Git mode) and `EXECUTE NOTEBOOK` with parameters:
  - `data_size=small|medium|large`, `parallel=true`
- The Notebook generates and uploads structured/unstructured files directly to internal stages.

## Optional fallbacks: Bash/PowerShell deploy
If you prefer CLI automation (SnowCLI required):

```bash
# Bash
./deploy/deploy_tch_poc.sh --account <acct> --user <user> --password <pwd> --generate-data-size medium
```

```powershell
# PowerShell
./deploy/deploy_tch_poc.ps1 -Account <acct> -Username <user> -Password <pwd> -DataSize medium
```

The scripts:
- Create database/schemas, file formats, and stages
- Deploy raw structure, conformed Dynamic Tables, presentation views
- Deploy Cortex Search/Analyst, Streamlit app
- Execute Snowflake Notebook for data generation (uploads to stages)

## Parameters & warehouses
- Warehouses used (adjust in SQL/scripts as needed):
  - `TCH_COMPUTE_WH` – data processing and Dynamic Tables
  - `TCH_ANALYTICS_WH` – interactive analytics/Streamlit
  - `TCH_AI_ML_WH` – Cortex operations
- Role: `TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE`
- Database: `TCH_PATIENT_360_POC`

## Repository layout
- `sql/00_master.sql` – single entrypoint orchestrator (Workspace‑first)
- `sql/` – setup, data_load, dynamic_tables, cortex, verification
- `python/` – Streamlit app and utilities; Snowflake Notebook sources
- `docs/README_WORKSPACES.md` – detailed Workspace/Git guidance

## Notes
- For Workspaces, your edits are the source of truth in inline mode (no `EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM`).
- In Git‑orchestrated mode, commit/push Workspace changes and ensure the repo object FETCHes the new commit.
- Cortex Analyst semantic YAMLs are under `sql/cortex/semantic_model/` and staged by the deploy steps.

Commit message:

Auto-clone Git repo in RAW_DATA via 00_master; README notes auto creation and removes manual clone

README.md, after:

# TCH Patient 360 PoC – Snowflake Deployment Guide

This repository packages the Texas Children's Hospital Patient 360 PoC for zero‑install deployment inside Snowflake.

## Quick start (Snowsight Workspaces – recommended)

1) Prerequisite steps to be taken by Account Admin:

Note: The Git repository clone is created automatically by sql/00_master.sql in schema RAW_DATA (requires existing API INTEGRATION GIT).
1) Prerequisite steps to be taken by Account Admin:

Note: The Git repository clone is created automatically by sql/00_master.sql in schema RAW_DATA (requires existing API INTEGRATION GIT).

```sql
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;
CREATE ROLE IF NOT EXISTS TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
GRANT ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE TO USER <YOUR USERNAME HERE>;
GRANT APPLICATION ROLE SNOWFLAKE.EVENTS_VIEWER TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
GRANT IMPORTED PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE SNOWFLAKE TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;

CREATE OR REPLACE API INTEGRATION GIT
    api_provider = git_https_api
    api_allowed_prefixes = ('*.github.com', 'https://github.com')
    enabled = true
    allowed_authentication_secrets = all;

GRANT USAGE ON INTEGRATION GIT TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;

-- In TCH_PATIENT_360_POC.RAW_DATA (matches sql/00_master.sql defaults)
CREATE OR REPLACE GIT REPOSITORY TCH_P360_REPO
  ORIGIN = https://github.com/jeremyakers/tch-patient-360-demo
  API_INTEGRATION = GIT;
ALTER GIT REPOSITORY TCH_P360_REPO FETCH;

CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE TCH_COMPUTE_WH
    WAREHOUSE_SIZE = 'MEDIUM'
    AUTO_SUSPEND = 60
    AUTO_RESUME = TRUE
    INITIALLY_SUSPENDED = TRUE
    COMMENT = 'General compute warehouse for data processing and transformations';

CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE TCH_ANALYTICS_WH
    WAREHOUSE_SIZE = 'LARGE'
    AUTO_SUSPEND = 300
    AUTO_RESUME = TRUE
    INITIALLY_SUSPENDED = TRUE
    COMMENT = 'Analytics warehouse for heavy analytical workloads and reporting';

CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE TCH_AI_ML_WH
    WAREHOUSE_SIZE = 'MEDIUM'
    AUTO_SUSPEND = 180
    AUTO_RESUME = TRUE
    INITIALLY_SUSPENDED = TRUE
    COMMENT = 'Warehouse for AI/ML workloads including Cortex functions';

-- Grant warehouse usage and ownership to the PoC role
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON WAREHOUSE TCH_COMPUTE_WH TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON WAREHOUSE TCH_ANALYTICS_WH TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON WAREHOUSE TCH_AI_ML_WH TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;

-- Grant essential privileges to create and manage databases
GRANT CREATE DATABASE ON ACCOUNT TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;

-- Grant privileges needed for Cortex AI features
-- These require ACCOUNTADMIN to grant initially
GRANT BIND SERVICE ENDPOINT ON ACCOUNT TO ROLE TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE;
```

2) Create a Git Workspace

- In Snowsight: Projects → Workspaces → From Git repository
- Repository URL: your Git URL (for example, `https://github.com/jeremyakers/tch-patient-360-demo`)
- Choose your API Integration and auth (OAuth2 or PAT)
- Select the branch (for example, `main`)
- Ref: Snowflake docs – Create a Git workspace: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ui-snowsight/workspaces#label-create-a-git-workspace

Workspace execution path
- The orchestrator executes files directly from your Workspace so your edits run without re‑fetching from Git. It uses the Snowflake workspace URI form:
  - Example: `EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM 'snow://workspace/USER$.PUBLIC."tch-patient-360-demo"/versions/live/sql/99_verification.sql';`
  - You can adjust these in `sql/00_master.sql` via `workspace_name`.

3) Open and run the orchestrator
- Open `sql/00_master.sql` in the Workspace
- Set parameters as needed near the top:
  - `data_size` → `small|medium|large`
  - If your Workspace name differs, set `workspace_name`
- Click Run All

4) Optional: Git‑orchestrated mode (executes from a Snowflake Git repository object)
- If your Snowflake admin created a Git repository object (with FETCH configured), set at the top of `sql/00_master.sql`:
  - Configure `git_db`, `git_schema`, `git_repo_name`, `git_ref_type`, `git_ref_name`
- Run All. The script will:
  - Execute step SQLs via `EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM @<repo>/...`
  - Create and execute the Notebook from the Git path
  - Create the Streamlit app from the Git path

5) Verify
- Run `sql/99_verification.sql` for a consolidated validation of raw loads, dynamic tables, and Cortex services.

## What gets deployed
- Raw schemas for source systems: `EPIC`, `WORKDAY`, `ORACLE_ERP`, `SALESFORCE`
- Conformed layer via Dynamic Tables (core PoC value)
- Presentation views for analytics and demos
- Cortex Search services for unstructured documents
- Cortex Analyst semantic model (YAML) staged and used by the app
- Streamlit in Snowflake application (Patient 360 app)

## Data generation
- Python is already inside Snowflake as a Notebook: `AI_ML.TCH_DATA_GENERATOR`
- `00_master.sql` can `CREATE NOTEBOOK FROM @repo` (Git mode) and `EXECUTE NOTEBOOK` with parameters:
  - `data_size=small|medium|large`, `parallel=true`
- The Notebook generates and uploads structured/unstructured files directly to internal stages.

## Optional fallbacks: Bash/PowerShell deploy
If you prefer CLI automation (SnowCLI required):

```bash
# Bash
./deploy/deploy_tch_poc.sh --account <acct> --user <user> --password <pwd> --generate-data-size medium
```

```powershell
# PowerShell
./deploy/deploy_tch_poc.ps1 -Account <acct> -Username <user> -Password <pwd> -DataSize medium
```

The scripts:
- Create database/schemas, file formats, and stages
- Deploy raw structure, conformed Dynamic Tables, presentation views
- Deploy Cortex Search/Analyst, Streamlit app
- Execute Snowflake Notebook for data generation (uploads to stages)

## Parameters & warehouses
- Warehouses used (adjust in SQL/scripts as needed):
  - `TCH_COMPUTE_WH` – data processing and Dynamic Tables
  - `TCH_ANALYTICS_WH` – interactive analytics/Streamlit
  - `TCH_AI_ML_WH` – Cortex operations
- Role: `TCH_PATIENT_360_ROLE`
- Database: `TCH_PATIENT_360_POC`

## Repository layout
- `sql/00_master.sql` – single entrypoint orchestrator (Workspace‑first)
- `sql/` – setup, data_load, dynamic_tables, cortex, verification
- `python/` – Streamlit app and utilities; Snowflake Notebook sources
- `docs/README_WORKSPACES.md` – detailed Workspace/Git guidance

## Notes
- For Workspaces, your edits are the source of truth in inline mode (no `EXECUTE IMMEDIATE FROM`).
- In Git‑orchestrated mode, commit/push Workspace changes and ensure the repo object FETCHes the new commit.
- Cortex Analyst semantic YAMLs are under `sql/cortex/semantic_model/` and staged by the deploy steps.
